---
layout: post
title: "ログを始めよう: The Project so Far"
---
At this point, the Kanji Study Tool project has been in development for about 2 months. When I intially started, I though it would be 
a good idea log my process, but I didn't follow through with it since the set up for [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) went over my head. 
But I've recently felt the need for a log again, so I found [this nice guide](http://jmcglone.com/guides/github-pages/) for setting up
Github pages with Jekyll. So the purpose of this post will be to layout what has been acompleshed in the past 2 months.

## Project Roadmap
Before I get into the detail of what I have done, I would like to layout the milestones for the entire project roughly in the order
they should be reached in. Of course this also includes those I have already reached. They are:
* Setup project environment and workflow
* Design database schema and create it
* Implement an accessor to the database
* Implement quizzing logic and presentation
* Implement retention score calculation
* Implement quiz generation
* Connect quiz generation, quizzing, and rentention calculation
* Design layout of site
* Implement profile creation
* Implement new kanji quiz
* Implement login

There may be more milestones, but as of this moment these are the ones in view. At this point, I have completed the milestones
through implementation of quizzing logic and presentation, and I am currently working on implementation of retention score calculation.

## The Details
One more thing before give the details. It should be noted that most of the technologies used in this project
I have no prior experience with. I have never done any sort of web development, so I had little to no experience with
HTML, CSS, Javascript, PHP, or Apache webserver. I also had little experience with SQL queries and no experience
with database design. The point being that much of the development so far has been spent learning these technologies.

### Project Environment and Workflow Setup
This milestone mainly involved following [this guide](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-linux-apache-mysql-php-lamp-stack-on-ubuntu-16-04)
to set up Apache web server, MySQL, and PHP on a raspberry pi. I decided not to install these on my desktop due to a desire
not to have them running on it and to simulate what deployment of this application might look like. So this means I have to 
commit and push changes inorder see them reflected. This has proven to be somewhat of a pain, but it isn't that big of a deal.

### Database Schema Design and Creation
The design of this database was done based on my limited knowledge of how databases should work. I sort of understood 
basics of how tables should reference each other in an effort to reduce data. I am aware of normal forms, but my design
at this moment does not take normalization into account. This will of course need to be applied later on. I am taking 
a databases course right now, so the design can be improved as I learn more. The main challenge I ran into in design was
figuring out what fields I needed and where to put them.

### PHP Accessor Implementation

### Quizzing Logic and Presentation Implementation

## Moving Forward